Okay so, now
let's go ahead and talk
about operators.
C++ has several types
of operators, but in this chapter
I wanted to focus on the
logical operators
and after that we'll go
into relational ones.
You have arethmetic operators
like addition,
multiplication
and division.
We already know them.
And they have
pretty much the same
meaning.
Well, perhaps not the presidence
but they are very similar in terms of
what they
do as supposed to the logical
operators
that I wanted to show you now.
Arethmetic operators, right.
I have
+
*
/ etc.
Those you know and those
you are familiar with.
So there's no need to like
go all over them again.
Obviously division and multiplication
have presidence over addition
and subtraction.
Pretty much the same things that
apply in Math,
apply here as well.
So, same ruling.
Anyway, let's go ahead and
create our main.
And
we're going to put
a boolian variable here.
bool and we're just going to
name this one - A.
And we shall state that A is true.
We will,
keep in mind,
that regardless, that this
is not number or a
string or something like that,
this is a key word.
And it says true.
It can also be,
instead of true,
I can also write
false.
Instead of
false, I can write 0.
And instead of true,
I can write 1.
Everything that is zero
is evaluated as false.
Everything that is
basically greater than zero
is evaluated as true.
So, but you can also use true.
For example in Java,
you cannot use 0 and 1.
You need to use true and false
or so it was.
I haven't used Java in a while
so don't hold my word.
Don't hold my word for that.
You can go ahead and check it
for yourselves if you want.
Anyway, I have stated
that the boolian variable,
that the variable A of type
boolian
is initialized to true.
Because boolian variables
can only have two values.
They can either be true
or they can be false.
There is no third option.
And let's also initialize B.
But we can basically go,
go like this.
B
= and we shall also state
that B is true.
Oops sorry.
Need a comma here.
A B C
And we shall state that the C is
false.
I don't have anything against C but
we shall state C is false.
And one more,
we'll just
name D.
A B C D
I'm just
putting them
in an alphabetical order.
No big deal.
I don't need any particular names
for these variables.
I just need to name them.
That's pretty much it.
So we have declared and initialized
4 boolian variables. 3 of those
are true and one of those is false.
Now we shall go ahead and
we will need to use them in order
to demonstrate
the functionality of
logical operators.
Logical and operator is represented
with two
ampersand signs.
Like this, so if you have another
bool
and we can name this one
and1.
We have not broken the
naming convention
with this. I already explained
how you can name the variables.
So you can use numbers
in naming your variables.
We shall say - A
&&
B;
So A
is true, right?
A = true.
And B
= true.
So what do you think that the
value of this variable will be?
What do you think that the
value of this boolian will be?
Will it be true or false?
Well, if this one is true,
and
this one is true,
then,
then the expression is evaluated
as true.
Let's take a look at another one.
So in order,
just one more time.
In order for this expression
to be true,
both A
and B
need to be true.
If A or B are false,
then this entire expression will
be evaluated
as false.
So we shall name this one
and2.
=
A
&& B
Oops.
&&
C
&& D
Now I want you to take
a look at this expression.
And I would like you to
tell yourselves, well you obviously
can't tell me.
I am quite some distance away
or maybe not, I don't know
where you are.
But I want you to figure out
what is the value
of bool and2.
Is it true
or is it false?
So it doesn't matter that we
have multiple,
multiple variables in the line
are lined up here and
this is longer than this.
Completely irrelevant.
Same rules apply.
All of these variables need to
evaluate as true
in order for this boolian to
be true as well.
Is that the case?
No, it is not.
C is false.
So C = false.
Henceforth, this entire
line will be evaluated as
false and
and2 will have the value of
false.
But there is something else that
you should
keep in mind.
A && B
is evaluated first.
Okay, that's fine.
B
&& C
is evaluated second.
And this is going to
evaluated as false.
Once this evaluates as false,
the evaluation will not continue
pass this.
So,
D will not even be taken into
consideration,
which is a considerable amount
of time,
which is very nice
and processing time that is.
So it will come to here
and then there is no longer any point
or reason to move on
as there is nothing that will
actually change this.
This will,
this entire expression with
or without D
with ampersands will be evaluated
to false as one of the,
one of the segments is false.
Therefore, the entire line will be
evaluated as false.
And
this variable will be given a value of
false.
Okay, that is done.
I know I doted that it
didn't can seem
a little bit boring or something like
that. I'm really sorry for that.
Nothing I can do about it.
I need to teach you these things.
If you do not understand these
basic things,
you will definitely not be able
to understand some of the,
more than concepts that we move into
as we make our progression
through C++. Because these our the
basic. These are the foundations,
without these, it's very difficult
to move on.
Because you're going to see
a billion expressions containing
boolians and logical operators
and you will see them
branching on and
etc. and you need to be able to
basically...
When you see it, you need
to be able to
read it and know immediately
what it is,
what it represents for,
what it represents, what it does.
So, let's move on.
Next up, we have the logical
or operators.
So, and, or and not.
They are basically
the three basic one,
the logical operators.
So you have, and, or, not.
There are some other ones
but we're not get into them
now. For the time being, I just
want you to learn these three -
and, or, not.
So next up is or.
You can have
bool
or1
= So I just want to demonstrate
how these things works, so you can see
C ||
represents or.
So || represents or.
D;
bool
or2
A
||
D || B
So, this is evaluated from left.
So from left
to the right.
That is the order in which
it goes.
For or,
only one
of the conditions,
only one of these
variable or
expressions that can be
placed
needs to be true. So,
if C
or D is true, it is completely
irrelevant what the other one is.
This entire thing will be evaluated
as true.
And
likewise, it stands here - if only
one of these is true,
the entire expression will be
evaluated as true.
So that's basically the
logic of or.
So you can have
A or B or D or C
and so on and so forth.
If only one of them is true,
it will, the...
They will result in a true value.
So to say.
Also, once it's checks
C
here it will check D as well.
Once it's checks A here,
it will not check anything else.
There was really no need to
evaluate the others.
Because if only one is true,
it's going to be true.
If
the first one here is false,
okay, there was a possibility
that it's false,
because D could be
false as well.
So it's going to need to check
to D as well.
But since A is true, there's
no need to check
the rest at all.
Okay so now,
before we go into not,
let's go ahead and take a
look at
and one more time.
And has a higher presidence
than or.
So,
it is,
how shall I put this?
It is ahead in the line
as oppose to or.
It's more important than or,
to put in a more simpler terms.
Let's create our boolian variable and.
Ooops.
_
or1
It shall be equal to A.
&&
B
And we shall have
this C.
Of course you can configure
the priority as you choose
and please with parenthesis.
And you can put into
parenthesis whatever you want
to be evaluated first.
Same rules apply with
arethmetic operators like,
if you have,
+ I don't know 2
*
2 * 5
will happen first and then
onto that
3 will be added. So the
result will be 13.
But you can basically do this,
you can
put this
in a parenthesis.
And you can say now,
okay, regardless of the presidence
of this operator,
I would like you to add
3 +2 first,
which is 5.
And then multiply it by 5,
which will mean that result is
25.
So you can do pretty much
the same things here.
You can configure the
presidence of,
of the entire line. So, which
segment of the line?
Which operations would you like to
be done first with the parenthesis?
However,
placing it like this,
in a clean line,
without manually configure,
without manually configuring
what you would like to be
executed first.
This is basically going to
evaluate the ampersand first and then
the or part will happen.
Now,
A
&& B
will be evaluated
and
it will,
the result
of A && B
will be stated or
C
So,
let's put it like this.
A && B
So A is true
and B is true.
So therefore this is
going to be true.
And C,
what is C?
C is false.
So, false.
It's basically true
or
false.
What will this evaluate to?
This will evaluate to
basically true.
Because
for or, only one needs to be true
in order for the entire expression
to be true.
Now, I made a small mistake here.
Somewhere up here basically,
this goes into or
and then the result of this goes
into or with B.
Same with this, A and B
&& and then the result
of this goes
into & with C.
And then the result of all
of that goes into & with D.
My bad there, sorry.
Made a smaller but
no big deal, okay.
So,
let's
move on.
You also have something like this.
Just so that the.
just so that the sequential order
of these things does not confuse you.
The way I have written them,
it doesn't actually,
it doesn't actually matter
that much.
If I write
C
||
A && here
B && C && D
So this is going to be
false.
Because it is the same
as basically
doing this.
So let me just show you.
This entire thing,
this entire thing can be
put down to
basically this.
Copy this.
Oh you don't need to do this.
I'm just going to do this
for demonstrating purposes.
You put it like this.
And then you put
parenthesis around it.
There we go.
And this is going to evaluate
to what?
So,
A and B
is true.
True and C, which is false. So,
true and false is basically false.
Okay, so this is
false.
And C is false.
So it's basically
false.
false
|| false
So, there we go.
Let me just format
a little bit
for you.
This entire expression
comes down to
false
or
false.
One of these falses is basically
this expression and
the other one is C.
So C is false.
So false or
this entire expression false
will yield
false. And the value of this variable
will be
false.
Simple enough, isn't it?
No,
no need to...
Even if you don't understand this
to the fullest of extense,
it is still okay.
I mean you can look it up
on the net.
You can ask question in the
discussion section.
But also there will be plenty of
other examples through the
code itself that is not perhaps
directly related to this,
so you will be able to pick it up
from there without bigger
problems as well.
So it will be repeated
a good amount of
times through the code indirectly.
Anyway, there is a one more operator
which I wish to go over and
then we are going to call it a day.
But I'm running out of time,
so I will do this in the
follow up tutorial.
In part two of the,
of the,
of the logical operands.